---
title: Assignment 6 - User Testing & Analysis
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 6 (Alpha) - User Testing & Analysis

## Task List

| **Task Title** | **Task Instructions** | **Task Rationale** |
|------------|-------------------|----------------|
|**Authenticating & Sessioning**|Create an account on Rely, then attempt to log out and log in.|This is a relatively simple warmup task that covers the authenticating and sessioning concepts. While this task is generic and basic, it acts as a good way for the user to get comfortable with completing a task while under observation. This task also allows me to see if authenticating and sessioning are intuitive and easy to do.|
|**Posting**|Take a look at the posts on Rely to get a general sense of the content, then create a post of your own.|This is a relatively straightforward task that covers the posting concept. I want to see if creating your own content on Rely is straightforward to do for a new user.|
|**Reacting**|Take a look at the other posts on Rely and like or dislike any post(s) that catch your interest. Now choose a post and go through it's comments, also liking or disliking any of the post's comment(s) that catch your interest.|This task covers the reacting concept. I want to see if it is intuitive for users to interact with posts and navigate the post feed and the comments of a post (liking, disliking, viewing comments, collapsing/showing sub-comments, etc)|
|**Commenting**|Reply to post that you were looking at in the previous task, either agreeing or disagreeing with it in your reply. Then, reply to a comment of your chosing (that isn't your own comment), either agreeing or disagreeing with it in your reply.|This task covers the commenting concept. I want to understand users intuitively reply to posts/comments and navigate the comments section.|
|**Following**|Follow any user(s) that you want on Rely. You can go back to the home feed as well as any previous posts or comments to find users to follow.|This task covers the following concept. I want to see how easy it is for users to follow other users. As the user goes back to the home feed or any previous posts/comments, I can also see if they are able to navigate it just as smoothly or more smoothly than the first time they navigated through the website.|
|**Following pt. 2**|Go to the home page. Then, switch between the "All" and "Following" post feeds. If your "Following" post feed still has no posts, try following some more users and seeing what happens.| This task covers the rest of the following concept. I want to understand if users can navigate between the different post feeds.|
|**Profiles**|Go to your own profile and look at the information about you to confirm that it is to your expectations. Then, go through your follower list and following list on your profile page to see if it is to your expectations.|This task covers the basics of the profiles concept. I want to see how easy it is for users to navigate their own profile and see their own information. I also want to see how intuitive it is for users to navigate their follower and following lists.|
|**Profiles pt. 2**|Now click through other users' profiles to see their information. You can access other profiles through follower/following lists, as well as clicking on their username on posts or comments.|This task covers the rest of profiles concept. I want to see how if navigate other users' profiles and see their information is striaghtforward.|

Note that while there is no specific task that covers the Scoring concept, the tasks that the users go through will (hopefully) give them a basic intuition on how the Rely-ability scoring system works. After a user completes the Posting task and Commenting task, I will react and reply to their posts and concepts to influence their user Rely-ability score. This way, by the time they start doing the Profiles task and view their own profile, they can see their Rely-ability score and understand how it is calculated. During the debref, I will also get their thoughts and observations on the Rely-ability score to see if they understand how the Rely-ability score is calculated and the overall purpose of the Rely-ability score system.

## User Study Reports

### User Test 1

The first user was a person of average tech-savviness, not particularly good or bad at identifying misinformation online. The user was able to complete the Authenticating & Sessioning task with no issues, being able to create an account, log out, and log in. They were also able to go through the post feed and create their own post with ease.

However, when instructed to look at the comments of a post, the user clicked the username of the post author, which brought them to that author's profile. They did not notice the speech bubble icon that would bring them to the comments of the post. Upon entering the post author's profile, they said "There are no comments under this post," not realizing that they couldn't see the comments because they were on the profile page. I had to prompt them with the question "Are you sure you are looking at the comments section of the post?" to get them to realize their mistake. After that, they were able to go back to the post and view the comments with no issues. This not only indicates that the speech bubble icon to access the comments section may not be intuitive enough, but also that the profile page and comments section may need to be more distinct from each other to avoid confusion.

Afterward, the user generally had no issues with any of the tasks, from replying to liking/disliking to following users. They were also able to navigate through their profiles and follower/following lists relatively easily. One small thing I noticed was that when following another user via the follow button on their profile page, the follower count on the profile page was not fully reactive, with the number only updating after a refresh. While the user did not notice this and it did not affect their ability to interact with the website, this was still a small improvement that could be made to the website.

During the debrief, the user stated that the Rely-ability score felt like a measure of the general consensus/reputation of a post, comment, or user. They correctly concluded that the likes and dislikes had some influence on a post/comment's Rely-ability score, but did not realize that the sentiment of the comments also had an influence. While the user doesn't have to know the exact details of how the Rely-ability score is calculated, I still wanted to get a general sense of how they thought it worked to see if it was intuitive to them.

Overall, it seems that the website was relatively straightforward other than when the user failed to access the comments of a post and mistook the profile page for the comments section. indicating critical areas of improvement needed for the UI. The user had a relatively good understanding of the Rely-ability score, even if they may not fully understand how it works. After describing the full function of the Rely-ability score and how it is calculated, the user stated that they would probably be able to figure out all of the details if they spent more time on the website. Note that this might just be hindsight 20-20, and close attention should be paid to how the Rely-ability score is perceived during the second user test.

### User Test 2

The second user was someone with below-average tech-savviness who generally prefers straightforward interactions and minimal steps to achieve a result. This user encountered difficulties with some aspects of the interface but still demonstrated valuable insights into the intuitiveness of its design.

To start, the user was able to register an account with ease, but when prompted to log out, they first visited their profile page to look for the logout button, soon realizing that it is not there. "I assumed the log out button would be in the profile page." They were quickly able to find the logout button in the settings (without my assistance) after realizing that it is not in the profile page, but this slight confusion indicated that some improvements could be made to the logout process for clearer accessibility.

Navigating the post feed was relatively smooth for the user, and they managed to create a post without issues. However, when directed to view the comments under a post, the user tried clicking the text content and background whitespace of the post, expecting it to lead them to the comments. They eventually found the speech bubble icon to access the comments without my assistance, but expressed that the icon was not immediately intuitive to them. Since accessing the comments of a post was an issue for both users, this strongly suggests that the icon's design or placement could be improved for better visibility.

Similar to the first user, the second user was able to complete the remaining tasks with relative ease, from reacting to posts and comments to following users and navigating their profiles. During the debrief, the second user believed that the Rely-ability score simply measured the total number of likes and dislikes, representing the general reputation or consensus of a post, comment, or user. Once again, the user did not realize that the sentiment of the comments also had an influence on the Rely-ability score and that the Rely-ability score was a measure of reliability and accuracy rather than general community consensus. While the difference between "consensus" and "reliability" is a small one, I still feel like improvements to the website UI/UX could be made to clarify this minute difference, allowing Rely to truly feel like a social media platform that focuses on reliability rather than popularity. Perhaps this small difference in my expectation and user understanding could be partially attributed to the like and dislike reactions since the thumbs up and thumbs down icons could be interpreted as a consensus (similar to traditional social media apps) rather than a reliability reaction.

Overall, the user’s experience demonstrated that while the site’s core basic functions were accessible, some interface elements—such as the logout button, comment access, and Rely-ability score could be clarified further for less tech-savvy users.

## Design Flaws/Oppurtunities

- **Accessing the Comment Section**: It is difficult for users to find the comments section of a post. This is because the users did not notice the speech bubble icon that would bring them to the post's comments. The icon by itself needed to be more intuitive, and its placement next to the like and dislike buttons may confuse it for another type of reaction. Solutions include adding text such as "Reply" or "View Comments" next to the speech bubble, as well as moving it to a different row to differentiate it from the like and dislike buttons. This design flaw occurs on a <ins>physical</ins> as users may struggle to identify where to press to reach the comments section. Still, this flaw is also somewhat <ins>linguistic</ins> as the speech bubble icon is not universally recognized as a comments section, and the lack of the words "comments" or "reply" may cause confusion. This is also a <ins>major</ins> severity flaw, since both users had trouble with this aspect of the website, with one needing external prompting to find the comments section.

- **Profile Page vs Comments Section**: Since a user mistook the profile page for the comments section, the profile page may need to be more distinct from the comments section. This could be done by adding the title "Profile" next to the profile user's username, or by adjusting the layout such that the profile header is centered or styled differently from the posts and comments section. This design flaw may be mostly <ins>linguistic</ins>, as the user may have been confused by the lack of a title or header on the profile page indicating that this is a profile page. On its own, this flaw has <ins>moderate</ins> severity, but it became a <ins>major</ins> flaw when combined with the comment section access design flaw, as one user needed external prompting to realize that they were on the profile page instead of the comments section.

- **Rely-ability Score**: The purpose of the Rely-ability score to represent "reliability" rather than "popularity" was not immediately clear to the users. This could be due to the reaction options to a post being a "thumbs up" or "thumbs down" icon, which could be interpreted as a consensus on whether people "like" or "dislike" the post rather than if they felt the post was "reliable" or "unreliable." The iconography of the reactions may need to be adjusted to clarify the concept of reliability, such as using a checkmark and an "X" instead of a thumbs up and thumbs down. Wording such as "Reliable" and "Unreliable" could also be added to the reactions to clarify their purpose. Users also may not immediately understand how the sentiment of comments is used to calculate the Rely-ability score of a post. This could be clarified by adding textual hints in the comment/reply creation form to indicate that commenting/replying will affect the Rely-ability score of the parent content. This design opportunity occurs on a <ins>conceptual</ins> level as users seem to misunderstand the fundamental purpose of the Rely-ability score. It also occurs, to some degree, on the <ins>linguistic</ins> level as the "thumbs up" and "thumbs down" icons may not be interpreted as "reliable" or "unreliable" by all users. This is technically a <ins>minor</ins> design opportunity since it does not interfere with the user's ability to use the website smoothly, but the misunderstanding of the Rely-ability score's purpose should not be taken lightly.

- **Logout Process**: The logout process may not be immediately clear. Some users may intuitively think that the logout button should be in the profile rather than the settings page. By also adding a logout button to the user's profile, or by making the logout button visible on the navigation menu of all pages, users may be able to log out more easily. This design flaw occurs on a <ins>physical</ins> level as the logout button is not present in locations where it may be expected to be (like the profile page or navigation menu), and is only present in the settings page. This design flaw is <ins>minor</ins>, as it does cause some small friction that seems to be quickly overcome.

- **Follwer Count Reactivity**: The follower count on the profile page isn’t fully reactive. If a user follows or unfollows another user via their profile page, the follower count does not update until the page is refreshed. The solution to this problem is simply to make the follower count reactive by using refs to store the follower count and updating it when the follow/unfollow button is pressed. This flaw occurs on a <ins>physical</ins> level as the follower count is not updated in real-time. This flaw is <ins>minor</ins>, as it does not interfere with the user's ability to use the website smoothly. Honestly, by the time I finished writing this bullet point, I felt that this may arguably be more of a flaw in my implementation rather than a design flaw, but I will leave it here for now since it is still an opportunity for improvement.